- [Woman] Okay, now let us just look at few important API's
on the http session object.
We have done session management with cookies,
and you are rewriting,
and every time you played with the http session API
because that's like the hero of this entire process.
Okay.
So let's look at other few important API calls
on that object.
So what I've done is I've written a logout servlet
and I've given it a url pattern of logout
through the addition configuration.
On line number 16 I'm just going to
take the http session again.
Right, so this is just an iteration of whatever we
have explained ourselves before
but there's often a confusion you're,
whenever you say request or get session
and as I said if the user is coming for the first time,
this API call will return a new http session object,
but if the same user comes again and again
in the same servlet where you have invoked this API,
it's basically going return the same session object
item defined by the session ID that it
is receiving from the client.
So do not worry about that stuff where you have to manage
the old and the new session objects.
That's completely going to be taken care of
by the server site.
Right.
So that's the session and now let's
just inspect a few API's on it.
So enter session dot get creation time let's say
Yeah.
So that will give me the time exactly
when the session was created.
Right.
Let's look at another one.
Session dot get attribute we have been employing
this API over and over
to get the session information stored,
so we know that.
Then we have session dot get ID.
Now, session dot get IDs going to give you that long ID number.
Right.
That we had generated through the server.
Get last access time API.
That is going to give us the
time when the session was accessed last.
Okay.
Next.
Is get max inactive interval.
Now this is a little important.
So when we say max inactive interval,
it means how much is the time that
the session can remain idle,
can remain inactive.
And after that period,
the server is going to close that session.
It is going to invalidate that session.
So that interval you are going to get through the
get max inactive intervaL API call.
Okay.
So imagine a situation like this.
You logged into an application
and let's say you decided to go for lunch.
You returned after 30 or 45 minutes.
The session would not possibly or would not necessarily
remain alive for that long of period.
Right.
So that's exactly what this max inactive interval is.
It can remain idle for a certain time
after which the server is just going
to invalidate their session.
So you'll have to log in again to set up a new session.
That's how this works.
Okay.
Now let's take a look at the other API's.
So yeah.
You can get the servlet context object on this session.
In a previous demo when we had looked
at the servlet context API,
we had gotten it through the meter on the http servlet,
and this is another way of accessing the servlet context.
So you may choose to access it from here.
Okay.
And this is the important one.
So invalidate call is basically going to close the session.
Right.
So this is typically invoked in a servlet which is,
let's say the logout servlet.
So I have deliberately written this servlet
so that when I click on the logout button
this servlet will be invoked and my session will be closed.
Right.
So it's just going to get you the current session,
and it will just quickly invalidate that session,
so that you're logged off and you're back to your login page
Right.
The other API's,
let me see.
If they are important we will take a look at it.
Yeah.
So is new will be telling you whether the session
is newly created or it is an existing session.
So you can employ this check if you're really doubtful
about certain flaws in all your screens.
Right.
We know remove attribute.
We know set attribute.
Set max inactive interval.
So the way you have get max inactive interval,
you can actually set max inactive interval.
So, you can define the period for which the session will be.
Idle.
It can remain inactive.
Right.
Now this parameter that we have
that we have to pass here is in seconds.
So let's say you want to keep
the session inactive for 60 minutes
then it will be 60 into 60
and that will go as an argument to this API call.
Right.
Okay.
Let's look at any other API that may look important.
Yeah, so that is pretty much the set
of API's that are important on this session object.
Another thing to note significantly here is
people often in projects actually configure
the session time out in the deployment descriptor.
Of course you can do it while the
set max inactive interval API that we saw just now.
But you can also do it in the web xml.
That is because whenever you change anything
in our java file
it has to be compiled again
and you have to redeploy the project.
However,
if you change in your web xml,
for that matter if you make changes to any xml file,
you just need to restart the server.
There is no need of redeployment.
But changes to a java will amount to redeployment
and restarting.
That's why people sometimes choose web xml
as a place to configure the session timeout period.
How do we do that?
I am on line number 46 of this file.
Just right under the web app tag,
and there's a tag which is called session config.
That's the one.
Under that you have one more child tag on line number 47.
Yeah.
That's the one session timeout.
Now this states the argument in minutes.
So let's say I want to keep session timeout
after 60 minutes.
I can just feed in 60 and I'm done.
So now in the user log's in
and if there is no activity for the next 60 minutes,
the session will timeout,
it will be invalidated.
Right.
Okay.
So these are all the API's for the session object
that I will review with you.
And you can set it up accordingly in your application.
Right, so now that we have written this logout servlet,
we are just getting the current session
and invalidating it.
This url pattern you can attach to
the logout hyperlink on your homepage.
So I'm just going to enter that url pattern here
and when you run this project.
Let's log in.
With some credentials.
Let's go on the profile
and when I click on logout,
I'm now back.
Right.
But then do you see a blank screen?
Yeah.
So in order to avoid that what you can also do is
you can come right here on line number 19
and you can take the request dispatcher
for help again
and just navigate yourself to the login or maybe the index.
The landing page.
That's all that you have to do.
So basically you come back to the original state
of the application that's what we have to do.
So I'm just going to
stop this server
and deploy this again.
Quickly log in.
With the correct credentials.
Go to the profile page
and when I click on logout.
There you go.
We are now back on the index dot html.
So that completes the flow of log in log out
everything using session management.